docs: Initial draft for adding a quickstart for Sulu, fixes #6230 (#6256)
ddev/ddev: docs/content/users/quickstart.md

        - fr
    ```

    `ddev exec bin/console sulu:admin:download-language` downloads any set language. The only exceptions are English and German which are shipping with Sulu.

The content management part of Sulu is built upon webspaces. Each webspace configures a content tree. Each content tree may contain translations for different locales. Create your default webspace configuration `mv config/webspaces/example.xml config/webspaces/my-sulu-site.xml` and adjust the values for `<name>` and `<key>` so that they are matching your project:

```bash
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<webspace xmlns="http://schemas.sulu.io/webspace/webspace"
          xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
          xsi:schemaLocation="http://schemas.sulu.io/webspace/webspace http://schemas.sulu.io/webspace/webspace-1.1.xsd">
    <!-- See: http://docs.sulu.io/en/latest/book/webspaces.html how to configure your webspace-->

    <name>My Sulu CMS</name>
    <key>my-sulu-cms</key>
```

!!!warning "Caution"
    Changing the `<key>` for a webspace later on causes problems. It is recommended to decide on the value for the key before the database is build in the next step.

> The information for the database connection is set in the environment variable `DATABASE:URL`. For development, clone the `.env` file by `cp .env .env.local` and change the environment variable to:

Reviewer: This line is for all Symfony based applications not correct the `.env`. You never do `cp .env .env.local` in Symfony based applicatoins as the `.env` is always loaded. You only write into the `.env.local` the things you want to change so in this case DATABASE_URL is only required to be added the `.env.local` normally already exists as the composer create project already set `APP_ENV=dev` for quick development start by Sulu.

```suggestion
The information for the database connection is set in the environment variable `DATABASE_URL`. The installation should have already created a `.env.local` file which allows you overwrite the `DATABASE_URL` if no `.env.local` exists create it and define also the `APP_ENV` variable:
```

Author: at first thank you for the review! and uh good point, cloning is not the right way to handle things here since `.env.local` is just overriding, that was my fault. 
but one question when i am applying the steps in the current draft `.env.local` is not created automatically by `ddev composer create sulu/skeleton` only `.env`, `.env.stage`, and `.env.test` is being created. To stay directly actionable and under the assumption that the `.env.local` file is not being created yet, how about using something like that instead of your second sentence? 

```
For development, override the `APP_ENV` and `DATABASE_URL` variables in the `.env.local` file with:

echo -n "APP_ENV=local\nDATABASE_URL=mysql://db_user:db_password@127.0.0.1:3306/db_name?serverVersion=5.7" >> .env.local
```

Reviewer: @rpkoller does ddev skip the composer create project scripts? Its create by the basic composer root install part:

https://github.com/sulu/skeleton/blob/6f9ff17f8862c482a5a4155f916b22b7db216112/composer.json#L120

That part should not be skipped, I recommend that for any framework / system:

![sulu-create-project](https://github.com/ddev/ddev/assets/1698337/a6081474-cbc8-4947-81af-4debba75af32)

Author: oh that is interesting. it looks like that some of the project scripts are skipped and not executed when running  `ddev composer create sulu/skeleton`. here is the output of the first two initial steps: https://gist.github.com/rpkoller/f4be5ff370afd60fe972b70275deddbd . those steps after the project is being create are missing. for example the app secret in the .env file is also not being replaced. i guess that bug in ddev first has to be fixed,  cuz it makes a few of the steps in the draft obsolete.

Reviewer 2: There is some problem with Mutagen sync in DDEV v1.23.1, `.env.local` is not created on `ddev composer create sulu/skeleton`

But @rfay recently made some changes for Mutagen, I tried `ddev composer create sulu/skeleton` with DDEV HEAD, and this problem is fixed, `.env.local` will be there is DDEV v1.23.2.

Author: i am on the latest version of HEAD (ddev version v1.23.0-84-g213f46972 - just tested if there was another commit). so the output in https://gist.github.com/rpkoller/f4be5ff370afd60fe972b70275deddbd shows that those scripts are  still not executed unfortunately. and i am also unsure how mutagen could interfere with the scripts not being executed?

Reviewer: The problem is that somebody add `--no-scripts` see output line 24:

```
Executing Composer command: [composer create-project sulu/skeleton --no-plugins --no-scripts --no-install /tmp/UPPlPA]
```

Author: one script is executed at a later point `composer run-script post-create-project-cmd` but not all scripts in general https://gist.github.com/rpkoller/f4be5ff370afd60fe972b70275deddbd#file-2-ddev-composer-create-txt-L543 aside line 536-540

Reviewer: The `post-root-package-install` should be executed before `Executing Composer command: [composer install]` (L54)

Reviewer 2: We have `composer run-script post-root-package-install` script instruction (before `composer install`), but I tested this on Linux w/ and w/o Mutagen.

I'll definitely have to check it out again on macOS.

Author: the setup the gist is created with is macos 14.5 running on lima with VZ

Reviewer 2: I reproduced it with macOS, and also with Linux (I don't know why I couldn't the first time, maybe I mixed the binaries)

I opened this:

- #6281

```bash

> DATABASE_URL="mysql://db:db@db:3306/db?charset=utf8mb4"

Reviewer: Missing "```"

Author: argh good catch, thank you!

> ```bash
> DATABASE_URL="mysql://db:db@db:3306/db?charset=utf8mb4"

Reviewer: All Symfony or even doctrine based applications should define the server_version else you run into unexpected errors:

```suggestion
```bash
APP_ENV=dev
DATABASE_URL="mysql://db:db@db:3306/db?serverVersion=8.0.32&charset=utf8mb4"
```

Author: as mentioned in one other comment i am not a developer and was following the recommendation by @rfay who raised 

> We don't want to put an explicit patch version of mysql in there, it will break often. If we used --database=mysql:8.0 above that does the job.

in https://github.com/ddev/ddev/pull/6256#discussion_r1625078826 . with the serverversion in the user would have to keep the version version updated in case the database image is getting updated in a new version of ddev?

Reviewer: yes but a project normally should not get automatically a new minor version, as doctrine did in past behave differently based on minor versions (e.g. JSON was stored as TEXT in older mariadb/mysql versions) and if it does not match your "production" version you even could accidently create false databasemigrations which do work locally but not on online server.

Reviewer 3: Database version is updated with DDEV versions; only the major version (like 8.0, 8.4 for MySQL, and 10.11, 11.4 for MariaDB, or `14` or `15` for PostgreSQL) is available. Maintaining a patch version in settings code won't work out in the long run (or the short run :) )

Reviewer 3: Minor rewrite of @alexander-schranz suggestion, without MySQL patch version.

```suggestion
APP_ENV=dev
DATABASE_URL="mysql://db:db@db:3306/db?serverVersion=8.0&charset=utf8mb4"
```

Now build the database. Building with the `dev` argument adds a user `admin`with the the password `admin` to your project.

```bash
ddev exec bin/adminconsole sulu:build dev

> ddev launch /admin

Reviewer: what kind of Webserver is DDEV using do we need adjust something to support the media download and image generation. We have docs for [apache](https://docs.sulu.io/en/latest/cookbook/web-server/apache.html) and [nginx](https://docs.sulu.io/en/latest/cookbook/web-server/nginx.html).

Reviewer: Beside the `var` directory which need to writeable in any Symfony application in dev. The `public/uploads` also need to writeable and in our case special vhost routing.

The Symfony CLI Webserver does not require special VHost the PHP Internal webserver requires a special routing file `php -S 127.0.0.1:8000 -t public config/router.php`.

Author: with ddev you are able to use apache as well as nginx, per default nginx is used. i've also pushed another commit to add `public/uploads` as the upload folder (are there more? - those are ignored by mutagen).

in regards of the other details you've raised i better hand over to @rfay and/or @stasadev, myself i am not a developer.

Author: and one other question @alexander-schranz in regards of multilingual. in the example i went with english in french to include one language aside the two sulu is shipping with. but with the snippet used in the quickstart i still get: 

```

Language: de
------------

 ! [NOTE] Download skipped because Sulu includes a translation for the language "de" per default.

Language: en
------------

 ! [NOTE] Download skipped because Sulu includes a translation for the language "en" per default.
```
when running `ddev exec bin/console sulu:admin:download-language` , why `de` is skipped? in the `sulu_admin.yaml` only english and french is set?

Reviewer: `de` and `en` is shipped via `vendor/sulu/sulu` so there is nothing to download as only none core languages need to be download from https://sulu.crowdin.com/

Reviewer 3: It looks to me like the default nginx config is working fine for displaying images:

<img width="972" alt="image" src="https://github.com/ddev/ddev/assets/112444/90576d9a-c360-4b87-b3eb-c5569830e232">

    ddev launch /cp
    ```

## Sulu

```bash
mkdir my-sulu-site && cd my-sulu-site

> ddev config --project-type=php --docroot=public

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
ddev config --project-type=php --docroot=public --database=mysql:8.0
```

Reviewer 3: I assumed from your `DATABASE_URL="mysql://db:db@db:3306/db?serverVersion=8.0.32&charset=utf8mb4"
` that mysql 8.0 was somehow important. If it's not, then we can use the defaults.

Author: i first had the same assumption but then took a second look at the docs and realized all the standard db ddev supports are supported by sulu as well

```bash
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<webspace xmlns="http://schemas.sulu.io/webspace/webspace"
          xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
          xsi:schemaLocation="http://schemas.sulu.io/webspace/webspace http://schemas.sulu.io/webspace/webspace-1.1.xsd">
    <!-- See: http://docs.sulu.io/en/latest/book/webspaces.html how to configure your webspace-->

    <name>My Sulu CMS</name>
    <key>my-sulu-cms</key>
```

!!!warning "Caution"
    Changing the `<key>` for a webspace later on causes problems. It is recommended to decide on the value for the key before the database is build in the next step.

The information for the database connection is set in the environment variable `DATABASE:URL`. For development, clone the `.env` file by `cp .env .env.local` and change the environment variable to:

> ```bash
> DATABASE_URL="mysql://db:db@db:3306/db?serverVersion=8.0.32&charset=utf8mb4"
> ```

Reviewer 3: This section should go earlier I think. People need to know this at the beginning. Maybe we can give them a standard way to do this with an `echo` or something.

We don't want to put an explicit patch version of mysql in there, it will break often. If we used `--database=mysql:8.0` above that does the job.

```suggestion
```bash
DATABASE_URL="mysql://db:db@db:3306/db?charset=utf8mb4"
```
```

Author: in regards of the position. i've followed the order sulu was using which seemed clear and logical to me. first you download the skeleton then you get the optional instructions for multiilingual  and the command how to download those, then you set the name and key which is necessary same as multilingual before building your environment and in the last step you prepare the env file with the database credentials. then you build it. so moving the env file before the other step i am not sure about.

    ddev launch /cp
    ```

## Sulu

```bash
mkdir my-sulu-site && cd my-sulu-site
ddev config --project-type=php --docroot=public --upload-dirs=uploads
ddev start
ddev composer create sulu/skeleton
```

!!!tip "Multilingual"
    To set up the administration interface for example in French alongside the default English, add the following snippet on top of `config/packages/sulu_admin.yaml` ([all available localizations](https://sulu.crowdin.com/sulusulu)):

    ```bash
    sulu_core:
        locales:
            en: English
            fr: Francais
        translations:
            - en
            - fr
    ```

    `ddev exec bin/console sulu:admin:download-language` downloads any set language. The only exceptions are English and German which are shipping with Sulu.

> The content management part of Sulu is built upon webspaces. Each webspace configures a content tree. Each content tree may contain translations for different locales. Create your default webspace configuration `mv config/webspaces/example.xml config/webspaces/my-sulu-site.xml` and adjust the values for `<name>` and `<key>` so that they are matching your project:

Author: i've cut the first three sentences

```bash
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<webspace xmlns="http://schemas.sulu.io/webspace/webspace"
          xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
          xsi:schemaLocation="http://schemas.sulu.io/webspace/webspace http://schemas.sulu.io/webspace/webspace-1.1.xsd">
    <!-- See: http://docs.sulu.io/en/latest/book/webspaces.html how to configure your webspace-->

    <name>My Sulu CMS</name>
    <key>my-sulu-cms</key>
```

!!!warning "Caution"
    Changing the `<key>` for a webspace later on causes problems. It is recommended to decide on the value for the key before the database is build in the next step.

> The information for the database connection is set in the environment variable `DATABASE_URL`. The installation should have already created a `.env.local` file which allows you overwrite the `DATABASE_URL` if no `.env.local` exists create it and define also the `APP_ENV` variable:

Author: how about? 
```suggestion
The information for the database connection is set in the environment variable `DATABASE_URL`. The installation will create a `.env.local` file. Add the `DATABASE_URL` that the `.env.local` file looks like this:
```
